hi my name is elizabeth and i'm a
medical student and an artist
living in london over the last three
years the way that i take lecture notes
has
massively changed and definitely
improved
to the point that now once i'm done with
a lecture i
no longer need to do any sort of post
lecture processing or
googling or organizing or putting things
together
when i'm done i'm done and all i need to
do
is sometimes study but most of the time
all i need to do is just revise when it
comes
to the exam so one of the things that
has massively
changed for me is switching from using
an ipad to take notes to using
my laptop or my computer to take notes
and i
genuinely think this has made the
biggest difference to me
and it has saved me absolute hours in
terms
of how long i need to work and study so
for a bit of background in my first year
of medical school i
exclusively used my ipad and notability
to study
i was notability obsessed as sad as that
is i used it for absolutely everything
from note taking to lectures to studying
later to creating questions
images diagrams pictures
anatomical drawings everything i was
using
my ipad i fully believe that using your
ipad for studying
would be detrimental in terms of
efficiency and productivity
and you would be wasting so much time to
get
the same results i will go through my
top five reasons why i believe
that you should absolutely not buy or
use an ipad
for note-taking in university the first
reason
is that lecturers have massively changed
if before you're sitting in a lecture
theater
and there's someone going through you
know the slides in front of you
you may or may not have these slides
most likely you're going to have the
slides from six years ago that were
uploaded
or you don't have them at all and in
that case it does make sense to kind of
use handwritten notes and
ipads are absolutely wonderful for that
today
if you're using your zoom assuming of
course
that the stars align and your professors
have magically
um you know figured out how to unmute
themselves
and how to share their screens and all
that so assuming
that that is sorted what will usually
happen is that when my professors are
having their
zoom cool i already have the slides on
my computer
they're here i can touch them i can feel
them they're mine
so that's massively massively empowering
because it means that i don't have to
wait for later
anything that is on my zoom screen
academically
um yeah i consider it to be mine and i
can do whatever i want with it
so this is what i do the first thing and
the most powerful thing
is screenshotting now i know that this
is not groundbreaking but
just hear me out there's a huge
difference in the way that you can
screenshot with an ipad
versus the way that you can screenshot
with a computer if you're sitting in a
lecture obviously you can take a picture
of the presentation but
what will busting your phone out and
taking photos of every single thing on
the screen
due to your street cred and your
reputation um
nothing but at home that's a bit
different so what i would do
is i'm really sorry if this is really
really basic but um
if you use command shift and three you
can screenshot your whole screen if you
use command shift
four you can have this little pop-up
that will you drag and drop and if you
use command shift five
i mean check it you'll figure it out so
i use command shift four
all the time and then i can just drag
and drop the
screenshot will go into the bottom
corner of my screen and i can drag it
into the document that i
am using to take notes this takes under
a second
i will not do it for every single slide
of the presentation because most of them
are pointless
but i will do it for the images or the
slides that i find
important and this saves so much time
on an ipad it would be such a chore to
take a picture or to screenshot
something and then
kind of go into your photo no um you can
do that so much quicker
using um their screenshot function the
second thing is that you can structure
things as you work
on your computer in a way that an ipad
will not allow
so in my ipad when i used to take notes
on instability
as the lecture went in order i would
continue taking notes and i was very
much limited to like the slides that
i've
uploaded there for example or to the
order in which things are being said
it's a lot more hassle to move things
around in notability
than it is on another platform i use
notion and
which is game changing but you can drag
and drop things everywhere
it's so much quicker to do this and in
terms of
processing your notes it helps so much
more because i am not limited by what
the lecturer think is important or the
right order to do things
if he forgets and mentions something 10
minutes later i can immediately put it
where it was relevant i can shift things
around according to how important i
think they are
if they're mentioning something that's
not coming up in exam or i'm not
interested in
i can completely ignore it so i am in
full control
of my notes now i'm moving on to point
number three
which is that you can create up
questions on the spot a lot
faster so if you don't use active recall
already
i am so jealous because whatever score
you're doing right now you can double or
triple it
by um you know using active recall it's
the best
most efficient most life-changing method
of study
please please implement it but a simple
way that you can do that
is simply making you know questions of
anything that you've slightly learned
so basically as a rule of thumb for me
if something is important enough for me
to take a note of it it's important
enough for me to know
so i will immediately make a question on
that for some reason
lecturers speak a lot slower and figure
things out a lot slower and zoom
so i have a lot of extra time during
which
i can just create a question from
everything that i've just
taken in um as a note and i'll just put
this at the top of everything and i'll
add these
as i go along my fourth reason is that
you have
full computer processing power so i can
have multiple tabs open
and this really helps so if before i
would take note of something and you
know put
put a symbol there or a star to remind
myself to go home and then google it and
check it out
and then add more notes in you know my
notability i don't need to do this
anymore
if i'm in the lecture i'll immediately
open a tab google something
use alfred by the way to just like
google something immediately
get the answer pop it in my notes and
that's done sorted
it has not interrupted anything lecture
is still going on and i am completely up
to date
with everything that is happening and
then my fifth and last reason is that
you don't need to handwrite anymore
so um even though there are studies that
show that handwriting
is useful in limiting the amounts of
notes that you can take
or kind of you know helping you stay
awake and all that stuff
i think in the end of the day in my
opinion handwriting is just
cute and nothing more you can very
easily tell yourself
to take less notes and you can train
yourself to do that if it's particularly
difficult
but um i don't think that it justifies
the need to
write things down by hand it's fully
editable it's copy pasteable
so all my questions i can copy paste
them in a separate document
like in the end of the lecture or during
the lecture um if i do them
copy them put them on another document
immediately things are flowing so much
faster
and they're so much more efficient and
everything is happening on the same
screen that the lecture is happening by
doing all these things
once the lecture is done i'm done i'm
finished
i don't need to do anything else anymore
so yeah in the end of the day i think in
so much of our freedom has been taken
away but what has been given to us
is virtual lectures which are so bad in
so many
ways but are great in the sense that i
now have
full power over everything that is going
on
and i can i've definitely been utilizing
that to improve my
learning and my workflow so yes
um so i think in the end of the day if
you're thinking of buying an ipad i
would just not do it
at least not for lectures i love my ipad
i still use it for art
but i just don't use it for anything
academic anymore if you're thinking
between an ipad and a computer if you're
starting university
i would definitely recommend the
computer first but
if you have money to burn add on an ipad
they're really cute
there there's a lot of fun things you
can do on it i mean it helps
it's nice it's fine if you get it for a
christmas gift don't be sad
basically is what i'm saying but yeah
i'll probably follow this up
with how i actually do take those nectar
notes in detail and how i use
notion to kind of create this whole
workflow
even though no one's asked for that
video i just find it really fun
so yeah that is all for me and thank you
good luck in university be kind to
yourself and others and don't believe
everything you think
thank you